---
pagetitle: "Climate School abstract ponder"
language: en
---

Summary (it ended up being way longer that I thought)
-----------------------------------------------------

I think we need an extreme change: an applications focused school,
consisting of faculty with experience working on change, and students
learning by actively working on mitigation projects in the communities
they come from.

Full length
-----------

For the climate school, I would first try and define what are the
objectives the program, and then hire faculty to meet those objectives.
When I think about the climate problem, the issue has not been the
science or research (we\'ve known the general picture pretty well for a
very long time). In my opinion the problem is we we have made minimal
tangible movement, as a society, towards any solution to the problem. So
I would say the of the school should be completely about observable,
implemented solutions. And faculty should be hired to achieve that, and
the school should be designed around that goal.

I had a chance to just scan the task force report, and was heartened to
see that they seemed to recognize that the bottleneck is in implemented
solutions. However I wonder if their recommended approach of just adding
courses, some certificates, and some outreach is really the best way to
bring about implemented solutions in society. To me that seems more like
adding a \"climate varnish\" to the existing academic traditions that
have (so far) failed to meaningfully address and prepare society for the
coming decades. I would hope they consider a more radical approach;
I\'ll offer one half baked idea, but the more important point is that I
think we should try and be extremely creative about what post-secondary
education could look like, and admit that people within academia may not
have the solutions (including myself, obviously).

I am going to base this on a few assumptions:

1.  The best way to learn is by doing (e.g. generating quality products
    requires acquiring knowledge, and learning in service to a goal is
    much more fun and rewarding).

2.  Graduate program applicants can be biased and filtered by their four
    years of undergraduate education.

3.  The underlying goal of a climate school should be to build a
    prosperous future for everyone.

4.  Our current approach to the climate problem is failing at both the
    local and global levels.

Because of (2) and (4) I would start with undergraduate programs: to try
something new I would start with people who have not been biased by the
old. Because of (1), (3), and (4), I would focus the entire \"education
experience\" around implementing solutions designed collaboratively by
faculty and students. This education could have two intensive degree
tracks: local (NYC), and global. To start, I would probably:

-   Focus on the local track (near term, tangible global mitigation
    seems more intractable).

-   Attract a student body that is at least half from the NYC area, and
    representative of that area, ensuring the student body understands
    the problems currently facing their communities.

-   Bring in the rest of students from outside NYC, to offer a diversity
    of perspectives.

While the students are on campus, all of their work will focus on
implementing or creating something that actually changes NYC\'s outlook
for the better. Basically, they get to campus, meet with faculty and
junior and senior students, and they put together an idea for what they
will work on while on campus, informed by previous students\' work, and
their own experiences and knowledge of need in the community. Over the
next four years while working on the project they will naturally acquire
the knowledge and skills needed to finish that work by the time they
leave (e.g., leveraging existing university resources and knowledge). I
do not think I have the perspective to say what these projects will be,
and that is why I think attracting the right community of students and
faculty is so important. However, it may be that the best way to locally
mitigate for the future is just to better address existing problems.
This is along the lines of some of the ideas I\'ve come across at the
water center in Prof. Lall\'s group: infrastructure problems of today
are largely independent of the climate problem, but can be greatly
exacerbated by it, so we need to act. In addition to infrastructure,
maybe the best thing we can do today in NYC is address economic and
social inequality we currently see - if everyone has economic and
political power as a city we will be much more able to adapt and protect
each other from environmental harm. Similar to infrastructure, these
economic and social problems can be greatly exacerbated by climate
change. The details of the projects will be decided by the students and
faculty, and their assessment of risk and need in the context of current
conditions and future global change.

Some of these projects might be multi-generation (in the student sense).
Maybe a graduating small group of students came up with a policy plan,
and some incoming students with community development and political
science interests will then take that policy plan and work with the
community to implement it over the next four years. This effort can also
include artists, education students etc., as art and education are great
ways to engage with the community and consolidate support for a policy
(possibly modifying it as community\'s needs evolve). The important
piece is that the majority of the students are from New York, so they
already have some existing community connections to leverage in this
type of work.

This is long winded, but I felt I needed to paint somewhat of a picture
of what the school would be before saying how I think faculty should be
judged. For faculty, it is important to hire the group holistically -
everyone should represent complementary perspectives on the problem
(e.g., business/economic, community, social, philosophical, maybe some
science and engineering, but I think the university already has a lot of
that the school can leverage) . The number one metric for hires should
be tangible experience bringing about positive change. This could be
successful implementation of community programs, school reform, laws
passed, businesses developed, etc. Faculty should also be good listeners
and able to adapt by learning from their students and students\'
experiences in their communities. For the local track, people from NYC,
or from cities similar to NYC, should be prioritized, and I do not think
there should be a need for experience in academia or other education
requirements (e.g. having a degree like a Ph.D.). Faculty\'s existing
work, and the degree to which it has brought about meaningful change,
should speak for itself. If the bottleneck is in observable, implemented
mitigation, so we should hire faculty that seem to have a demonstrated
skill set to break through such bottlenecks. Hiring committees may
(probably?) need to consist of people outside of academia to best assess
the quality of applicants\' work on change from a community perspective.

In the end, if this is successful, in addition to bringing about
meaningful change in NYC, it will also serve as a model program for
other universities in other cities. If it is not successful, at least
Columbia tried something new. Columbia also might say, \"might we lose
money?\", or \"how do we make money off of this?\" Putting aside the
issues of an institution of higher education asking such questions,
there is no doubt that addressing this problem will require capital
investment, so if Columbia is really serious about addressing the
problem they will need to join that investment.. Yes, this program might
require significant scholarship funding to attract the necessary student
body, and it might not bring in very much external funding (at first),
but existing funding sources and students have not addressed the
problem. I would also say that if this works and students and alumni
play a major role in NYC becoming a model for climate adaptation and
preparedness, the prestige this would bring to Columbia is something no
amount of money can buy.

One might also ask, \"where is the research?\" in all of this. I think
it is important to remember that the school will not be in a vacuum from
the rest of the university; existing faculty and student research can be
greatly enriched by the work done at the school and collaboration with
the school: the school can inform the direction of more basic research,
and researchers can study the consequences and results of climate school
projects and interventions. This academic research can feedback to
improve the school and future students\' work. Columbia has plenty of
academia already: I do not think we necessarily need more, but the
addition of a nontraditional program could be a huge benefit to the
existing academia.

(I focused on the local track because it seems more tractable and
probably closer to my heart, but I think the global tract could be
designed similarly. Global mitigation requires global collaboration, so
the student body should be representative sample of global countries and
cultures. The students can work together to compromise on a global
mitigation strategy, and frame it with what it would actually take to
get agreement in their home countries and communities. There might be
less \"tangible\" change in the global tract, because it is such a hard
social/political problem, so the focus might be more on developing
leaders with international connections that go back and work in their
communities. Could be a lot of collaboration with the UN.)
